hi everyone welcome to the Stellar
development foundations engineering talk
series my name is Lee McCulloch and I'm
a software engineer at the foundation
I'm one of the people working on
improving the experience that
individuals have using Stellar and the
businesses have building on still and
today I'm talking about Stellar
ecosystem proposal 30 sep 30 is an
approach to make still a key management
user-friendly in products built on
Stellar
so a user friendly team andr is maybe a
bold statement to make
because key management is rarely user
friendly but that's what we're going to
talk about today first I'm going to set
some context and touch on what key
management looks like on the Stellar
network how key management relates to
Louis and then some common approaches
&
that while it's take in the Stellar
ecosystem and in the blockchain space in
general then we'll jump into the
approach taken by a SEP 30 or through an
example step by step of how Sept 30
works and then reflect on why this is
valuable we'll also have a Q&A at the
end so if you have any questions during
the talk please drop them into the
YouTube chat box and we'll get to them
at the end so what is key management and
why do we care at the core of owning a
Stellar account or an account on many
blockchains is being in possession of a
key on the Stellar network if you have
an account you have a key for that
account a key is made up of two parts a
public key that you share with others
and a secret key that you keep private
this is an example of what the public
key looks like and what a public key
looks like on the Stellar network it
starts with the G the public key is your
account address
people send funds to this address and
they'll show up in your account balance
and this is what a secret key looks like
it starts with an S on the Stellar
network we call the secret key that
defines your account address accounts
master key if you create a new account
on the network and don't change its
configuration your master key is what
you use to assign transactions it's what
you use to control your account so what
do we mean by signed transactions
Stellar accounts have silenced a signer
is a key that can authorize transactions
for a Stellar account and the master key
it's the default signer of the account
being a signer vostell account is sort
of like being a signer on a bank account
you can sign cheques for that bank
account and banks will accept the check
as valid if you get a new account on the
network it's got one signer and that
signer is the master key
but accounts can also have more silence
in addition to or instead of the master
key as signer is a signing key just like
a master key accounts can be configured
to let signers authorize transactions
individually or together in a group on
Stellar that configuration for what
combinations of signers are required to
authorize transactions is controlled by
setting a threshold on the account and
then weights for each signer an example
of this could be an account that has a
threshold of 20 with with signers that
each have weights of 10 need two of
these signers to sign a transaction for
the transaction to be valid another
example might be an account that has a
threshold of one where any signer could
sign the check by itself for the check
to be valid much like a basic joint bank
account you'll hear people use the term
multisig to refer to accounts they use
multiple silence but most accounts on
the network only use the master key and
so they only have one signer some
have used an additional signer as to
factor auth the control of the account
still hinges on possession of that
master key so key management is how we
manage all of these keys and will it
play a pivotal role in key management
because of the core of a wallet is key
management a wallets core job is to hold
your salary calm and so its core job is
to store your key protect your key help
you use your key to sign transactions
and then prevent you from losing your
key so let's talk about some common
approaches to key management that are
being used so many wallets they only use
that master key this means your account
has one key one signer and that key is
stored on the device in the wallet
application those wallets can help you
to not lose your key using a few
different methods one approach is to
give you Eve the key in some form to
write down on a printout the key lives
in two places it's in your wallet on
your phone and it's on paper as a backup
if you lose your phone this is great in
terms of simplicity really
straightforward to implement your key is
backed up but it does present some
challenges it puts a lot of
responsibility on the user the user
needs to write down the key exactly
correct if they lose the paper it's
written on they've lost their backup if
someone else finds the paper their
account is easily stolen and it can be a
jarring experience to ask a new user to
write down a lot of text immediately
after dev installed a new application
that they may not be committed to
another approach is to store a copy of
the key on the wallet server but this
this has some different challenges the
users gotta trust the wallet server
completely because the server will have
access to the key and therefore control
of their account somewhere let's address
this challenge by encrypting the key
using a password that the user enters
into the wall all it but has never
shared with the server
this means the wallet server is not able
to use the key because it cannot decrypt
but this only works for wallets and
products that require the user to make a
password
that won't be shared with the server
which is yet another password for the
user to lose so all while its do key
management but most focus on managing
one key got master key and backing up
that master King so let's talk about the
approach that sub 30 takes sep 30
recovery signer is a Stellar ecosystem
proposal that means it's a proposal that
contains a new standard or a change to
existing standards that is build on top
of the Stellar network and for use in
the Stellar ecosystem sep 30 is an
approach to key management that's
focuses making key management and
specifically the preventing loss part
has user FM as user-friendly as any
other consumer application its goal is
to work without recovery phrases to have
no server with a sole control of the
account and to not require the user to
remember a secure encryption password to
encrypt their key sep 30 is currently
being used in one wallet the vibram
wallet which is a noncustodial u US
dollar saving wallet the store's value
on the Stellar network the vibram wallet
is currently in open beta and presents a
user experience designed for the general
public you login with your phone number
you don't need a password a wallet like
vibrant that is implementing sep 30
still does many of the same things that
other wallets do it's a store a key
they protect a key and they help you to
use your key to sign transactions and
they prevent loss but the loss that
prevents is different it prevents you
from losing your account and not your
key a wallet implementing sep 30 weren't
manage and backup a single master key
instead the wild
manage device keys and help the user to
get new keys the user Stellar account
won't change its address will stay the
same but the user signing keys will
change so let's have a look at what Sept
30 is Sept 30 to 5 that provides two
endpoints one to register accounts and
another to sign transactions for that
account
a wallet uses that first endpoint to
register an account with the server in
the request the wallet tells the server
what identities are allowed to request
signatures for the account those
identities can be things like a phone
number or an email address the wallet
authenticates using septum which is a
Stellar eco system proposal that's
widely used already that defines a
challenge and challenge response
authentication flow that the wallet uses
to prove to the server that it possesses
keys that can sign for this teller
account this way to the server noise of
the client should be allowed to define
who can sign transactions for their
wallet in their response to while it
gets back a signing address for the
server and it makes that address a
signer of the Stellar account the second
endpoint is transaction signing a wallet
calls this hand point with a transaction
it wants to serve it assign it'll do
this when it has lost its key and it
needs the server to sign transactions
for it
the wallet authenticates using an
identity provided during registration if
the phone or email matches an attendee
stored with the account on the server
the server will sign the transaction for
the seller account and returned that
signature to the wallet so let's have a
look at an example and we'll walk
through how well it can use these two
endpoints to support account recovery
for the example I will give the user who
is using the wallet a name and we'll
call her Alice
when Alice creates an account with the
wallet the app on her phone is going to
generate a master key and then the
wallet server is going to create the
account associated with that master key
the master key will be one of those big
s secret keys that we looked at at the
beginning and it's the red key in this
diagram the red key never leaves Alice's
device the app on her device doesn't
give this key to anyone with sep 30 we
can implement this wallet so that there
is no need for the master key to be
backed up anyway Alice's wallet also
generates a second key what we'll call
her d'lai scheme it's a key that is only
for this device to use to sign
transactions in the same way that the
master key is not shared with anyone the
device key is not shared with anyone
either palace' Swallow submits a
transaction to the network making that
device key a signer of the account and
removing the master key has a spoiler
Alice's wallet then deletes the master
key it's not useful anymore the wallet
then goes through the process of
registering the account with to recovery
cells each server has their own key that
they generate themselves each server is
hosted and controlled independently by
different entities the wallet proves to
each so they independently that it has
authority over the account by signing a
sub 10 transaction and tells the to
recovery servers that anyone who can
prove possession of the user's phone
number or email should be allowed to
request transactions to be signed the
wallet submits a transaction to the
network adding both recovery signers as
cylons on the account but limiting the
weight of those signatures so that
neither recovery server has independent
control over the value in the account
each each recovery server will be at
assign a transaction at the request of
the user but the transaction will only
be authorized if signed by another
independent
honey the only individual with
independent control of the account is
independent control of the &nt is
Alice here's an example of what it looks
like on the public block Explorer on the
public
Stella Network this is Annie this is an
Stellar Network this is Annie this is an
account on the public network with its
threshold set to 20 and there are four
silence the master key at the bottom
with a weight of zero meaning that it
has no control over the account a device
key with a weight of 20 so that the
device has complete control of the
account and then to recovery servers
that each have those weights of 10 so
let's imagine that Palace has lost her
phone and she's purchased an earphone
the greyed out phone in the top left is
her lost phone that still has her device
key on him and her new phone has no key
for the account Alice's new phone goes
through the same process that a previous
phone did when it signed up with the
wallet server it generates a device King
and it signs into the wallet but that
new device key is not a signer of her
seller account so her device can erase
transactions yet the wallet app talks to
the first recovery server and ask the
server to sign a transaction that makes
her new device key a signer on the
account Alice then continues recovery
with the third party recovery server the
third party is operating independently
so Alice authenticates with them
independently with an SMS codes and to
her phone number or a link or a code
sent to her email address once Alice has
authenticated the server science the
transaction and returns the signature to
the wallet the transaction has now been
authorized with a weight of 20 and can
be submitted to the network the
transaction removes the old signing key
that was lost with Alice's previous
phone and adds the new cyma key that
lives on Alice's new phone Alice is now
back in control of her account
finally what's important to highlight is
that while alice is in full control of
her account this process can be built
into the wallet into the wallet
application and be behind the scenes for
her what Alice experiences is the same
user experience that we've grown
accustomed to in consumer applications
which leads us to y sub 30 is very broad
right now great user experience drives
adoption and supporting account recovery
through phone and email brings a
noncustodial wallets user experience
closer to that of other consumer
applications the registration user
experience for Alice can be that she
signs up like many consumer products
logging in with her phone or email and
the recovery user experience for hours
is similar requiring only a second SMS
or email with a third-party recovery
provider these are patterns that are
familiar to users of consumer
applications this approach is also very
flexible allowing a wallet to still
offer a recovery phrase that can be
written down by generating an additional
key to be their recovery phrase or to
allow for multiple devices where each
device generates its own key that never
leaves that device this approach also
makes dealing with lost devices simpler
a lost watch containing a wallet can be
quickly revoked by removing its key as a
signer without needing to get a new
Stellar account and when Alice decides
to purchase a new watch it can be given
a new key again without interrupting any
of her existing devices but the court
reason for why sub-30
really is valuable right now is user
experience user experience that will
drive adoption
so if you'd like to learn more about sep
30 the proposal itself is about a 15
minute read and there's a thread on the
Stellar dev mailing lift without mailing
lists where you can ask questions
provide feedback or make suggestions
contributions and discussion welcome and
now we have some time for Q&A see what
questions we have
okay well thank you listen to me talk
about subsiding